Gerardo, thank you very much for being here.
for you on the invitation.
We will talk about a very interesting
topic that is Agile, which is an
unstoppable trend, which has been around
for many years and that is something
that I think that all Power MBA
students need to know, understand
well at least the principles
of Agile.
In this first class, what we will do
is understand a little bit what it consists
of and the first thing I would
like you to explain to us is
What are the reasons why Agile
is born?
Or to answer what problems.
Yes, I think the best way to actually
start is to explain why you
were born and what it gives the answer.
They are basically two points.
The first is about adaptability,
companies either adapt
or die.
It's a cliché, but it's a cliché
because it's true.
We have heard it millions
of times.
We've heard it a million
times since the 1990s.
And there are a million reasons
to say it.
And without going too far, Hardware
Business Review, which is the
best business authority, published
in 2016 that of every 10 companies
that existed in the 80s, only
two of them still survive.
If you look at the time and
life period of a company, in the
1960s, a company that was founded
could last 60 years, today it
has dropped dramatically to 10
or 12.
There are a million people
who say it, and there are a million
truths that corroborate it.
If you don't adapt and don't reach
your time to market, if you don't
change business, you can die.
This, the cliché, the truth is that
every day is a bigger problem.
Threats are growing every
day.
If you are a non-agile company, that
is, it is difficult for you to
adapt, define a new strategy.
Well, it is very easy to understand.
If it is difficult for you to adapt, if you
are not agile and you are like a transatlantic,
it doesn't matter whether you are large
or small because there are small
companies that are very unagile.
They will be given them everywhere,
and that is the truth.
You will die, point.
There is no other story.
A better example of Borja is the
example of Nokia.
Who didn't have a Nokia or a
Blackberry less than 6 years ago.
And despite that, people like Apple,
people like Samsung came to the market
and they have completely shattered
them in a matter of a year.
They have not adapted, they
are dead.
The market share they have is poor,
the income is poor and they
are a company that goes bankrupt.
Yes, but that example you put,
to the small businessman you say,
no, that's another story.
If you are a small businessman, it doesn't
matter what type of company you
have, if you are not adaptable, if you
are not agile, you will die, point.
There is no other story.
In fact, my experience, which
also goes for all branches of companies,
even in the not so large world,
is because you have not even
had the opportunity to mount
entry barriers.
And in that delicate period, as
you don't adapt, it's much easier
for you to be pissed and not passed
over.
That is for me essential, if you don't
adapt, you die, first argument.
and recorded.
And a second and not
least important, and is
also a topic of much concern,
is the level of commitment
that people have today in the jobs.
The traditional way to manage talent
doesn't work and people are becoming
less and less unfaithful to
their company.
He becomes more unfaithful.
Yes, and I will give you a test.
Anyone you know in human resources,
ask them what is one of the
biggest concerns on their
agenda and they will tell
you the rotation.
We don't have employees, it's not just
cost to capture them, but also
to train and maintain them.
So we're talking about two very
real points of view that are, I have
to adapt and I have to do it with
a talent that I can secure
in my company.
These are the two great answers
that Yael has been born with
and which have proven that
it works.
actually is.